Hey, guys.
In this clip we're gonna talk
a little about how you're going
to go about building an IoT,
what kind of things you need.
So let's start off with some scenarios,
some of the ideas you may come up with.
We talked about a sprinkler example
in the previous lesson, the sprinkler
which is smart enough to know when it
rains or when the soil needs water.
Or too, maybe a garage door opener,
you may have some pet projects.
For example, I leave my garage door,
some nights I forget to close it.
And wake up in the morning I see the door
is still open and there are raccoons and
squirrels in there.
So you may want to come up with
something where between 10 PM to 6 AM,
if it's open beyond a certain amount
of time, it closes automatically.
Or a pet feeder project,
where you may be out of town and
you want a cat to be fed at
a certain time every day.
Or a surveillance project,
where you are monitoring your house and
if it detects motion take a snapshot,
send it to your phone as an MMS.
These are possibilities.
Maybe you may have a different idea for
a selfie stick.
You can be a better selfie
queen than Kim Kardashian.
So you may have all kinds of ideas.
Let's kind of figure out what
do all these things need, right?
Some sort of a compute platform.
You need some sort of a small
compute platform which is able to
receive information either in a wired or
wireless fashion.
And two, being able to act upon it.
For example, maybe drive a motor or
send a wireless signal or
fetch some information from the Internet.
And if you may need location information,
you may need a GPS receiver.
In addition to that, cost is an issue.
You don't wanna buy
a separate computer for that.
You want something small which is
portable, you can move around.
Optimal in power.
You don't want it to
suck up too much power.
What else?
And of course, you want it to be cheap.
Add-on components easily available.
It may not have all of the functionality,
you may buy third-party sensors, for
example, for motion detection or
moisture detection.
And easily interfaced to these boards,
maybe in a wireless fashion.
And so it should have some sort of
all types of wireless connectivity
built into it.
So what are the options?
There's these kinds of requirements,
and they should support the programming
environment you like to operate
in based on your skill set.
So the options are, one, microcontrollers.
These are small devices where you
program some logic in the computer.
Burn it, flash it to this thing,
and it does.
Arduino's one popular board out there.
Second options are these
single board computers.
The most popular one you might
have heard of is the Raspberry Pi,
where you can put in Linux on it and
do a bunch of things.
And third is you can
just use your smartphone.
Do a whole bunch of things.
The only thing which may be lacking in
there is you can not drive external
devices.
Everything will be most probably
wireless unless you build
some custom hardware to
plug into your phone.
But you can do a whole bunch
of stuff with your smartphone.
In this course, what we're gonna use is
the Arrow Electronics DragonBoard 410c.
It's powered by
the Qualcomm Snapdragon processor.
I have one right here.
The reason we picked this board is
it's actually a new kid on the block.
I shouldn't say new kid,
it's a new dragon on the block.
It's kind of a Raspberry Pi on steroids.
The reason we like the board is it's
got awesome built-in connectivity.
It has built in Wi-Fi, Bluetooth,
and it's got even a GPS receiver
with an antenna in it.
Typically if you buy the Pi,
you'll buy a Wi-Fi dongle and stick it in.
It's got couple of USB ports and
it's very optimized power consumption.
So the coolest thing is
it's the same processor
which drives pretty much every smartphone
which powers this board as well.
It's the Snapdragon processor.
So it's very close to the smartphones
you carry in your pocket,
this environment here.
The minor subtle difference is
that it's optimized for power.
By default it puts out 1.8 volts.
The Pi typically puts out 3.3.
And the pitch on these pins are 2
millimeter and the Pi has 2.54 millimeter.
Other than differences like that,
it's got great connection options.
So this is gonna form the hardware for
this course.
Everything will be tailored
around this board,
so to move along further in subsequent
courses, you do need this board.
There are instructions
where to buy this board.
This slide I kinda want to show if
you take out your smartphone, open up
the hood, you'd find components which
are very similar to what's in this board.
So this board by default
comes with Android so
in other words you're comfortable
programming in an Android environment,
this board is right up your alley.
In fact,
you can install Linux in there too.
But so that kind of,
this slide here shows the underlying,
what's in your smart phone,
you'll find components similar to here.
So that kind of summarizes what it's
going to take to built IoT in terms of
hardware and software.
So thank you.